---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 5) Accessibility Benefits Everybody
---



Mek's presentation on the Internet Archive was eye-opening and inspiring. I appreciated Mek's enthusiastic approach to the presentation
as he gave us a rundown on why this library matters, how it works, some challenges they have faced/are facing, and finally, how we can get involved. I appreciated how in most, if not all, aspects of his presentation, he circled back to why this matters; accessibility to all. I was intrigued to learn about how this is a California State Library, and how it operates just like a library.  <!--more-->

I took the liberty to read some articles posted on the Internet Archive's website, and was pleased to learn about the positive impact this library has on others; learning how this library saves others in ways I would not have thought of. Mek also talked about this issue, but an example is saving people from having to drive hundreds of miles to access a book, or saving people money. It not only enriches curious minds, but this open-source project is advancing research, and overall, contributing to making a positive inclusive change in the world. 


This was my first time learning about the Internet Archive, and I am looking forward to sharing this resource with my hometown. I went to a low-income K-8 school, and now that I look back, it is easy to see how limited resources impacted our educational and personal growth as children. I can only hope that with time the school has advanced in its own ways, but I wonder about schools that continue to struggle. Even with just one copy of a book (if that is all that is available), the Internet Archive can aid a teacher in their curriculum; perhaps by having a class book that the whole class reads in a week. I was recently hired as a part-time Spanish Teacher, and I plan on doing this with my class!


In terms of my contributions, I have contributed to OpenStreetMap, focusing on my hometown Franklin, NJ. I added different stores that were not previously available and also added information about existing places / such as operating hours and active contact information. I have also reached out to different projects I am interested in contributing to, but have not heard back. The biggest challenge I have faced thus far is researching for meaningful projects that I want to get involved with, not hearing back in a timely manner, and having to move on to a new one. Especially if I really aligned with a particular project's vision. 

