---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 1) Estela’s Open-Source Journey
---


To me, open source is about opportunity and expansion. I believe that we are limited to what we know, and this applies to both our project creativity and implementation. Regardless if we work on something individually or have a team, at the end of the day we are one unit that is bounded to what only we know. Thus, opening up our projects to the world is us permitting growth; opening up to new ideas that the starting team may not have thought of. I am hesitant on saying that not every contribution is beneficial, because as little as it may be, it still enhanced a project. 


On the other hand, I understand why some projects are not open-source, as a team can have one vision in mind, that potential contributors may not align with. A team may also have a mission they wish to accomplish, whether short or long-term, which means they may have certain deadlines that contributors may not be able to commit to. But, this same scenario also supports the benefits of open source projects because you can meet deadlines faster if you have more people contributing to the project.

 <!--more-->


I personally view open source projects as more powerful, I would emphasize that project coordinators have clear instructions via their “README” file so that users can truly understand the project as well as a strong “contributors,” file so that users can know what they can and cannot do in terms of contributions. 
Having only recently dived into understanding what open source even means, I am surprised as to how much I have interacted with open source projects, like Wikipedia. I always knew that anyone can edit Wikipedia, but I never put a term to it until now and had a “that is what that was,” moment. Though it is interesting to see from a programmer’s point of view how impactful contributions can be, as we view it in a positive way. I am someone who comes from a strong humanities background and have taken and enjoyed writing courses, and sources like Wikipedia are looked down upon. When I was younger, I was always told to avoid Wikipedia because “anyone can edit,” thus it is “less credible.” So I am not only interested in my shift in perspective, but am looking forward to how this changes within this semester of me working more closely with open source projects. 
