---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 10) Kolibri Kontinued
---



This week I felt very stagnant as my team and I continued to face some issues with Kolibri’s software. Despite our dead ends, we have been assigned an issue and were hopeful that we could work on them without some of the project dependencies, but quickly released it was not possible. That being said, we reached out to two different people we believe could help and are still waiting to hear back.


 <!--more-->


Our shortcomings are a great opportunity to help strengthen the Kolibri development community as we can make it easier for people to contribute in the future. But I personally thought our contributions would be more code-based and not mainly documentation, but hopefully, that will change in the next few days as we wait for some help on how to navigate our issues. I even wondered if we were doing the right thing by sticking with this project, but the maintainers and slack community channels have been fairly active so we believe in what we are doing. I can also see why in class it was emphasized that we like the project we choose because that is what keeps me going after all these issues.

I am thinking about the beginning of the semester; how exciting it was to learn all about open source. It felt like there was a strong buildup, and now that we’ve encountered this hill, my first instinct is to “run,” and find another project where we can consistently be assigned issues—I know this is an underlying fear of “what if our contributions aren’t enough for this class’ sake,” but I think my group and I will be fine. We are all individually growing and are also growing as a team.