---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 7) Increasing Accessibility to Education 
---
  

What I want most for my group project is to contribute to a meaningful cause — I am interested in connecting with Kolibri’s community and learning about how it’s improved and where it wants to go. One of the main reasons I wanted to pursue Kolibri was its mission to increase accessibility to education — it's an offline learning platform that runs on low-cost devices and offers practical tools such as a library of open educational resources. Their mission excites me, and I hope that my team and I can successfully connect with Kolibri and contribute in many ways.  <!--more-->

I worry that my team and I won’t be able to connect with the Kolibri members as we wish. We would love to join any weekly meetings that they have and really get in touch with everyone. At a previous internship, I was able to attend weekly meetings, and ask to join any other meetings that were of interest to me, even if it just meant I would audit the whole time — which pushed me to learn more about the corporation and see it as a whole; who they were, who they are, and where they want to go. And that is something I really hope we can ask for with Kolibri, but it is a challenge.

My team and I have successfully reached out and connected with one of the main GitHub maintainers, but we were redirected to a slack group chat — which is good progress, but we hope to be able to chat with someone virtually one on one. We are optimistic, but if necessary, we will work with what we can.