---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 12) Healthcare x Kolibri
---

**Can You Afford to Live?**

A significant challenge that people with Type 1 diabetes face is not being able to afford insulin, a life-sustaining medication needed to manage blood sugar levels. Throughout Christopher Snider’s presentation, I consistently thought about my immediate family members who also have type 1 diabetes and struggle to pay for insulin— a common struggle that disproportionately affects low-income/marginalized communities. Thus, learning about Tidepool Loop was inspiring, especially because it started off as a patient-led initiative. 
 
 <!--more-->

Open source in the healthcare industry, such as Tidepool, is revolutionary because it originated and continues to be developed by people who understand and can provide the needs and perspectives of those with type 1 diabetes. I appreciated how Christopher emphasized how every day can be a challenge; you can have a set meal plan, but your body can have a different reaction every single day — this inconsistency can be alarming, but it highlights how crucial Tidepool, as well as other open source projects, are. Having collaborative innovation is necessary since everyone is different, and for each individual, patterns are never certain; solutions for today might not promise you tomorrow. Open-source projects are also cost-effective, providing a layer of equity by increasing access to technology without financial strain. Overall, open source increases innovation and accessibility to healthcare solutions—ensuring that everyone, regardless of socioeconomic status, can get quality care.


**Kolibri**
This past week, my team and I finally got our first pull request (PR) accepted and are submitting another PR for review. We have directly contacted the most active maintainers on Kolibris GitHub, and they shared how valuable they believe our contribution to the software installation for Windows will be, so we have planned to finish that component by end of this upcoming week. I believe after such a hard first couple of weeks, it’s difficult to have a negative outlook since we could only go up from where we came from. I anticipate our biggest challenge will be finding more issues we can work on that can be completed in the next few weeks; Kolibri is currently developing a new version, and a lot of the open and unassigned issues are intimidating. The issue that I worked on in the developing branch was itself not hard, my challenge was understanding the overall workflow of the code, in a new language. By taking a step back, and trying to deconstruct encapsulated code, I could understand what was going on. And this is a tactic/strategy we will utilize these next few weeks, but we are also open to engaging with the community and reaching out to experienced software contributors for help.





