---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 9) Moving Forward
---
  
**Jim Hall**
Although we have only had two guest speakers this Spring semester, their willingness to share their stories and journey with open-source software/projects is inevitably inspiring. To read about Jim Hall, the founder of FreeDOS, and to be able to share a (virtual) space with him was motivating because it comes to excited me for the future. When Jim told us that he had been coding since he was a child, 6 years old, I was surprised—even though this is a common theme among most CS majors or computer scientists in general, it is incredibly impressive to be able to say that this has been a lifelong passion.  <!--more-->

Also, your passion led you to write your own operating system, which has now been around for almost 30 years. Perhaps this is incredibly admirable because I just began my CS journey two years ago.


**Group Project: Kolibri**
I did not anticipate that my team and I would take so long to install the necessary software for our group project. At points, I thought we should pivot and choose another open-source project that was easier to install in different operating systems, but I am glad we stuck it out. Right now, my teammates and I are deciding what we want to focus on; do we try to contribute to code, or should we mainly focus on contributing to documentation? We are currently part of a Slack channel where there is daily activity and we are participating in that chat as much as we can since most of our communication with this project is via Slack, Github, or email.

I am happy with how understanding my team is that we are all in this together because the obstacles we have encountered (hard installation or minimal contact with the maintainers) would have been harder to overcome alone.