---
layout: Blog Post
title: (Week 6) Estela's Why
---


After spending some time looking for open-source projects, I came to realize how important evaluations are. For both projects I researched, I was first looking to align with the project's mission— is this something I care about enough to want to contribute meaningfully? Once I found some that I did, I have to make sure it was “open-source.” But regardless of them being advertised as open-source, there were some inconsistencies, which in a way is fine because that means there’s room for improvement— a bug I can report.  <!--more-->

Both projects I chose were still well under development, one not even having a contributing file — but having a “proposal form,” where users could essentially create/propose the file. But it’s difficult to create a contribution file if a user is unaware of what the maintainers are looking for. It seems like both projects need more communication channels, and I am questioning how to navigate around that. Perhaps we shouldn’t have to, but it’s just a thought since the projects I chose are ones I would be happy to pursue. I will overcome this by setting deadlines / if I don’t hear back within a week at the latest, that means it’s time to move on.

Another big realization I had this week had to do with what kind of project I want to contribute to — but this extended to me questioning what kind of company/organization I want to work for in the future. I am interested in software development, but software that is increasing accessibility all around—like the Internet Archive. I was particularly researching open-source projects that aid undocumented immigrants/refugees, survivors, or the homeless— especially in big cities like NYC. It was hard to find one with a similar objective and also difficult to find one that was action-oriented. What I mean by that is that one can develop the most sophisticated software, but how is this community actively engaging its target marginalized community — how do they try to close tech gaps between generations / those from lower socioeconomic backgrounds? This perhaps is not something I may be able to find right now, but I am glad this research is making me question what I want to do in the future — it is helping me carve out my why.