---
layout: Blog Post
title: Week 3: Put Me in Coach!
---


For the past few weeks, I have been dreading using git just because it is something I am new to. After forcing myself to use both class and outside resources, I got to see that all I really needed was practice. 


One of the things that stuck with me this week is when Professor Joanna said something along the lines of "you are uncomfortable with git if you have not been practicing, but comfortable if you have been practicing." Which to me, just meant that I had to just start; a common lesson that has been resurfacing itself this Spring semester. 

<!--more-->

Working in teams and heavily focusing on collaboration is something that I have not necessarily been asked to do in class. For the most part, I oftentimes get away with working on things individually, which has become a big comfort zone. 
Though I am able to step back and see that it is obviously not a reflection of the real world. Thus becoming a part of an open-source community, which at its core, is about collaboration, is new. New in the sense that it can be uncomfortable, but in a good way. Because I know that in a couple of weeks, I will feel more confident as I will be coming from a standpoint that has had more time in the playing field. 

As of now, I can strongly speak on my experience with creating a firefox extension, KodeHub. Working in a small team, with only women of color, felt very supportive. When it comes to group projects, I usually take the role of the group leader and end up doing most of the work to make sure that everything is "right," or to my liking. Perhaps this was the first time I worked in a setting that actually felt like a "team." I knew that if by any chance I could not finish something, they would step in, and I hope I was able to reciprocate that support. My teammates immediately showed me that they were reliable.

I would say that my biggest contribution to our web extension KodeHub was creating the detailed KodeHub Manual, which was our "Installation" component as well as a Discord server. I was also able to create banners for our project in hopes to enhance our creativity. Our team worked really hard on marketing ourselves as an inclusive and open environment, and hopefully, with time, we are able to make it even better. We oftentimes discussed what we could do, and still can do, to ensure that people know that we are open to all programmers, regardless of experience. A common thought that came across my mind was "is this enough," in terms of marketing ourselves as an inclusive and safe space for all. Because I know that I am limited to only what I recognize as "inclusive," and as ever-evolving humans, there is always room for growth. 


Overall, my experience with KodeHub is one that I am proud of, though as good as it was, I understand that group projects may not always run as smoothly. I am grateful it did for once, and I hope that when I get a full-time career, I am able to become a part of a team just as strong; we are strong because not only do we talk, but we listen; we provide ideas but are also open to suggestions. It is a two-way lane that is open to change for the better. 



